## Passed February 2018 CSA-A Exam - New Release synopsis


https://acloud.guru/forums/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate/discussion/-L5WLPO18o4lj0LrIbA_/passed_february_2018_csa-a_exa



I just successfully sat and passed the most recent version of the AWS CSA-A released in February 2018\. 65 questions, 130 Minutes. Here's my synopsis.

**Key Points:**

*   100% of questions are scenario based

*   Need to have a solid understanding of Multi-tiered architecture for applications.

*   Need to understand Hybrid Environments (On-Premise/Off-Premise)

*   Questions are not too wordy, but.. can be almost silly in their scenarios.

*   Most questions have 2 answers that are blatantly wrong (if you know the concepts well), and then you have to thoughtfully choose 1 of the other 2.

*   There's Plenty of time.

**Topics:**

*   Lots of questions on EFS - Understand use, and comparison to EBS and S3

*   Lots of questions on RDS

*   Lots of questions on ELBs. Specifically, ALBs and Classic ELBs, and choosing which, when.

*   Quite a few questions on KMS, encryption, choosing what product when. Understand all options/scenarios synced with S3.

*   Several questions on Dedicated instance types for EC2, again what to choose/when scenario

*   Several on EBS Types, and needing to choose the correct type - SSD, Provisioned IOPs, Throughput Optimized

*   Several on/with VPC Endpoints

*   Several on Cloud Watch and Cloud Trail - API tracks, Flow Logging, Metrics, etc

*   5+ on Lambda

*   5+ on DynamoDb (Including one involving DAX)

*   2+ on Kinesis

*   2-3 on Docker

*   2-3 API Gateway

*   1 on Redshift

*   AWS Glue was one option

*   VPCs and subnet structure. Including communication between them, with ELBs, and off-premise.

*   of course security groups and use, as well.

Hope that helps! Good luck to all!
