## Passed February 2018 CSA-A Exam - New Release synopsis

https://acloud.guru/forums/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate/discussion/-L7uITWGWEI21g2BXL1_/exam_feedback_-_saa_february_2

I know there are some great feedback posts for the Solutions Architect - Associate (SAA) exam, but I thought it would be good to collect the results for the new version for folks moving forward.

I took the new February 2018 last weekend and finish in about and hour and a half. A couple days later I received my official score of 899/1000 (Thanks to Ryan and A Cloud Guru!). I think I had expected a lot more overlap from the current version of the Developer - Associate exam I had taken in November, and in that regard I think the exam was _slightly_ harder than I had expected. Some of the general content of the exam that was notable for me:

1.) ECS: Only remember maybe one questions on ECS, but it was more challenging than expected. Consider how you would split up processing jobs that had a critical 24/7 component and a non-critical batch component.

2.) Redshift: There were a surprising number of questions in this area, some of which I had reviewed based on other folk's feedback, but other, mostly infrastructure questions for which I was wholly unprepared. Topics included how to perform encryption, cross-region backups/replication, and disaster recovery of a cluster (through cloudformation?). In retrospect I would have definitely reviewed the Redshift FAQs and maybe even tried to setup a cluster.

3.) One question related to when to use AWS Config.

4.) A handful questions about choosing the optimum (performance+cost) EBS storage solution based on a set of given requirements. I think the course prepares you well for this.

5.) A few questions on optimizing DB performance through different means, like Elasticache, read replicas and Aurora. Glad I read through the RDS FAQ for this but might be a little overkill.

6.) Another handful of questions regarding VPCs/Subnets/Peering. Definitely glad I read through the VPC FAQs for this. Examples include how to keep private S3 connections when using VPNs.

7.) Lots of questions regarding setting up 3, 2 and 1 Tier web applications, which were in line with the types of questions for which the course prepare you.

8.) A question regarding about which service to use for an NGINX apps. Made an educated guess on this.

9.) There were a couple complete curveball questions on _specific_ classes of EC2 reservations, like Convertible vs Standard reserved instances and spot vs spot block instances. To be honest most of the terminology was new to me and wish I had read more into this, possible through the EC2 FAQ. I think I made good answers based on context clues.

Overall, I though the existing SAA course prepared me well for the exam and that a little supplementary research, like reading FAQs, went a long way. It would nice to see more Redshift and ECS content in the course, and maybe a little more discussion on the detailed instance types mentioned above. 

Thanks again to Ryan and gang. Good luck everyone!
